Let us poke around with some values,
shall we?
You can use the typeof operator to
figure out what these values are.
And what I'm going to ask you'll to do,
is before you type anything in,
guess, what type of value of
the ones that we've seen so
far, are each of these values.
So we're gonna take a moment to think
about it to ourselves and then use our
typeof friend to check our answers and
then we'll talk through it together.
Okay, so let's see.
How do we feel about these values?
Were we able to guess them?
Sometimes, I would imagine at least one
would have been very difficult to guess.
Okay, so let's see.
False, what type is it?
>> Boolean?
>> Boolean, exactly.
It is the counterpart to true.
We already discussed these
are with no quotes around them.
These are Boolean values,
and they're the only ones.
How about the second one in quotes, true?
We already looked at it a minute ago,
this is a, Stephen?
>> String?
>> A string, exactly.
So we looked at this a second ago,
I think I probably still have
it in my history here, yeah.
So typeof in quotes, true string.
That's again different than if
we do typeof just the word true.
Okay, how about document.title?
What did we get?
It's also a?
>> String.
>> String, yes.
So document.title, again,
we said that it's gonna be, well,
in this case it's new tab because
I'm not even in a document.
But if we typeof that,
We expect some kind of title,
some kind of text to describe this page or
name this page.
How about though, if we take a string
like some string, and then we do .length.
What did this come back with?
What type of value does
this come back with?
>> Number.
>> Number, so
remember the .length we said,
we ran into it earlier,
it tells us on certain types of things.
It tells us how many
things are in this thing.
So we use it earlier to find out how many
children are in a certain element, or
sort of the children of a certain
element in our HTML document.
We can also use it on strings, and
we're gonna look at this in a second.
So if I have some string and then .length,
it's gonna give me a number and
I can confirm that with typeof.
And we'll talk in a moment
about what that number is.
How about the last one?
Did anyone guess this?
If you do, you have some kind
of JavaScript psychic powers.
This one is super weird.
So we said that, okay, we talked about
two types of nothingness in JavaScript.
There's undefined, which if we typeof,
It's type is called undefined.
And then the other typeof
nothingness is null,
which really just represents nothing else.
But, [LAUGH] if I right typeofnull,
did you find object?
And now, you might be saying Anjanette,
you lied to us,
when you said that null
is a primitive value and
that JavaScript distinguishes
primitive values from objects.
So why is null type object?
Well, that is because sometimes
JavaScript makes no sense.
[LAUGH] So, as I mentioned earlier,
JavaScript was implemented in like
ten days in its original version.
And there were certain historical
accidents that we're still dealing
with all of these years later.
And one of them is the fact that
typeofnull it says that it's an object
even though null actually is a type.
It is a primitive data type in JavaScript.
So this is just a weird thing, and I bring
this up not because you need to know that
typeofnull returns object, that is really
just an accident and there's interesting.
You look it up on MDN and
blog posts and stuff like that,
there's interesting reasons and
underlying low level like bit
implementations of things that,
why this is.
But the important part is that
sometimes JavaScript does stuff
that we don't expect.
But suffice it to say that despite
all of its historical accidents and
all the fallout from it being a language
that was thrown together in ten days.
Just to be a scripting language to
interface with the document that has now
gone on to basically conquer the world and
exist in all kinds of other contexts and
be one of the most powerful and
most widely used languages out there.
We still have some like gotchas, or
as they're often called in
the JavaScript community, wat, WAT.
So you'll often hear about
there's a weird JavaScript wat,
where typeofnull is an object.
That's something you might run
into in your JavaScript journey.
And I only bring this up now
because sometimes stuff is weird.
So we don't need to worry
too much about this,
this isn't gonna come up in
our daily lives very often.
But suffice it to say, that JavaScript is
sometimes as these little Easter eggs that
have interesting backstories but
not a lot of logical explanation.
So, any questions about typeof or
these different primitive data types
before we move on, and
talk in more detail about one of them?
Yeah, question from the chat.
>> Why is typeof undefined coming
out as in quotes undefined?
>> Haha, so this is a great question.
So for example,
when I do typeof 42 I get number.
Why do I when I do typeof a in quotes 42,
I get string in quotes?
So typeof, if we look it up, In our
MDN friend, we can type in typeof and
go to the page, this is the definition
of the typeof, it's an operator.
We're gonna talk about what
operators are a little bit later.
But the typeof operator essentially
always returns a string.
And the string corresponds to the name
of the type that this thing is.
So, types themselves are identified
by these strings that indicate
one of these several values.
So string number, string,
string, string, Boolean, etc.
And that is how typeof works
is it returns a string always.
So great question.
And as usual, if we have questions like
this when we're continuing our JavaScript
journey, our friend MDN
usually knows the answer.